# CHR-Associate-DS-HatCHRy
This analysis constructs classifiers for our inferential target, CurrentCondition - a factor variable indicating order status. In this most initial section, I import the provided data and inpsect the levels of the target variable. I observe seven non-missing levels, which are highly unbalanced. In particular, approximately 60% of the orders have condition status "Accepted", compared to .05% of the orders having condition statuts "Waiting On Recommendation". The unbalance informs our selection of reasonable classification methods. For example, I hesitate to use support vector machines because designing weighting contrasts without much domain knowledge is probably ill-conceived. There are 16,156,315 rows in the data and 15 columns (after removing the intelligence-free row counter column).

Now, I do some exploratory data analysis. We begin by assessing the possibility of duplication within the orders data. We find a single duplicate request_id, corresponding to request_id **f0293ccd87b445f5989c6c68726608dc**. On inspection of these duplicate request_id, they appear to be true duplicates, so I remove one of the duplicates, keeping the other. 

I proceed by identifying missingness in the features. I find four columns having incomplete cases: (1) order_distance, (2) order_origin_weight, (3) rate_norm and (4) est_cost_norm. On inspection of some samples of rows with these missing features, I assume that these data are missing at random. In any case, the missingness is rare and will probably not sway our analysis.

Next, we are interested in whether any features might be thought of as redundant to correlation. Among numeric variables, we produce a correlation matrix, which shows, unsurprisingly, that (1) fields rate_norm and est_cost_norm exhibit high correlation $\left(\rho=0.805\right)$ and (2) fields order_distance and miles exhibit high correlation $\left(\rho=0.982\right)$. These correlations are observable also in the two scatter plots provided. The combinations of these four variables are also correlated, though they are likely capturing different information related to the order process. For these reasons, we eliminate fields rate_norm and miles from the data. 

To shape expectations about the most important factors associated with our inferential target, I produced two other visualizations. These factor frequency bar plots help me understand the amounts of segmentation of CurrentCondition arising from two features: (1) color and (2) lead_days. It is striking that "rejections" are well segmented from other CurrentCondition levels by the level of color. This is likely by design, based on the data dictionary. Second, we may be able to re-bucket the lead_days field to produce more credible intervals and, therefore, better segmentation of CurrentCondition. In particular, there's likely no difference on the level of CurrentCondition based on whether the lead_days are 60 or 61; for this reason, there's a reasonable argument to group and bucket these into percentiles. When we look at the frequency bar plot, we see that CurrentCondition varies considerably based on the factor/percentile levels of lead_days.
